switch to ruff (#5218)
plotly/plotly.py: CONTRIBUTING.md

    while higher-level methods that work on figures regardless of the current schema (e.g., `BaseFigure.for_each_trace`)
    are defined in `plotly/basedatatypes.py`.
    Additional helper methods such as `update_layout` `add_trace` are also defined there for the `Figure` object.

-   The [`plotly.express`](https://plotly.com/python/plotly-express/) module (usually imported as `px`)
    is a high-level API that uses `graph_objects` under the hood.
    Its code is in `plotly/express/`.
    Plotly Express functions generally concern themselves with formatting data and creating figures out of `plotly.graph_objects` instances;
    they are designed to be consistent with each other and to do as little computation in Python as possible.

-   Other pure-Python submodules include `plotly.io` (a low-level interface for displaying, reading and writing figures)
    and `plotly.subplots` (helper function for layout of multi-plot figures)

-   Tests are found in `plotly/tests`.
    These are organized in subdirectories according to what they test:
    see the "Setup" section below for more details.

> -   The documentation is in this repository,
>     and its structure is described in [its README file](doc/README.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   Documentation is found in `doc/`, and its structure is described in [its README file](doc/README.md).
```

    The documentation is a great place to start contributing,
    since you can add or modify examples without setting up a full environment.

Code and documentation are not the only way to contribute:

> you can also hepl the project by:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you can also help the project by:
```

-   Reporting a bug at <https://github.com/plotly/plotly.py/issues>.
    Please take a moment to see if your problem has already been reported, and if so, add a comment to the existing issue;
    we will try to prioritize those that affect the most people.

> -   Submitting feature request (also at <https://github.com/plotly/plotly.py/issues>).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   Submitting a feature request (also at <https://github.com/plotly/plotly.py/issues>).
```

    Again, please add a comment to an existing issue if the feature you want has already been requested.

-   Helping other users on the community forum at <https://community.plot.ly/>.

If you'd like to know more,
we recommend reading [How to Contribute to Open Source](https://opensource.guide/how-to-contribute/).

## Setup

This section explains how to set up a development environment so that you can contribute code and/or tests.
Note that if you are modifying a single documentation page,
you can do it directly on Github by clicking on the "Edit this page on GitHub" link without cloning the repository.

### Get a Local Copy of the Project

We use Git and GitHub to manage our project;
if you are not familiar with them,

> there are great resources like <http://try.github.io/> to get your started.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
there are great resources like <http://try.github.io/> to get you started.
```

so that you have your own copy to work with.
Once you have done that,
you can run the following command to get a local copy of your repository
(replacing `your_github_id` with your GitHub ID):

```bash
git clone https://github.com/your_github_id/plotly.py.git
```

You can then go into that newly-forked repository using:

```bash
cd plotly.py
```

### Create a Virtual Environment

Next,
you should create a *virtual environment* for the project
so that packages you install won't affect other projects you are working on.
We recommend using [`uv`](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/) for this:

```bash
uv venv --python 3.12
source .venv/bin/activate
```

Alternatively,
you can use [conda](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/tasks/manage-environments.html#creating-an-environment-with-commands)
or [virtualenv](http://docs.python-guide.org/en/latest/dev/virtualenvs/)
to create and manage your virtual environment;
see those tools' documentation for more information.

### Install Packages

If you are using `uv`,
you can install all of the packages needed for developing and testing plotly.py with this command:

```bash
uv pip install -e '.[dev]'
```

> This command also creates an *editable install* of plotly.py

Reviewer: ````suggestion

If using `conda` or `virtualenv`, you can install all packages with:

```bash
pip install -e '.[dev]'

```

This command also creates an *editable install* of plotly.py
````

so that you can test your changes iteratively without having to rebuild the plotly.py package explicitly;
for more information please see
[the `pip` documentation on editable installs](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/reference/pip_install/#install-editable)
Please note that the single quotes are needed to escape the `[]` characters.

### Formatting

> This repo uses [ruff](https://astral.sh/ruff) to format Python code consistently
> and the [pre-commit](https://pre-commit.com/) library to manage a Git commit hook to run ruff prior to each commit.
> Both pre-commit and ruff are included in `pyproject.toml`,
> so you should have them installed already if you've been following along.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This repo uses [ruff](https://astral.sh/ruff) to format Python code consistently. Ruff is included in the `plotly[dev]` install, so you should have it installed already if you've been following along.
```

run this command in your virtual environment:

```bash
pre-commit install
```

ruff will now run automatically whenever you perform a commit.
The commit will proceed if the formatter makes no changes,
but will be aborted if it does.
To proceed,
add the files that the formatter modified and commit again.

If you don't want to use `pre-commit`,
you can run ruff manually prior to making a PR with:

```bash
ruff check .
```

### Making Your Change

Do *not* work in the `main` branch directly.
Instead,
create a new branch for your work with the following command
(replacing `your-branch` with a meaningful name):

```bash
git checkout -b your-branch
```

Once you have made your changes and tested them,
push your changes to your fork of the plotly.py repository on GitHub
and create your pull request.

### Testing

We use [pytest](https://docs.pytest.org/) for managing and running tests.
You are strongly encouraged to write or modify tests whenever you add or change functionality;
we are more likely to review and merge PRs with tests than ones without.

If you have installed all the dependencies as explained above,
you can run all the tests with:

```bash

> pytest tests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
python -m pytest tests
```

```

During development,
you can speed things up by running only the tests in a particular file:

```bash
pytest tests/test_plotly/test_plot.py
```

See [pytest's documentation](https://docs.pytest.org/) for more details.

## Advanced

> ### Generating the JavaScript Bundle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Generating the JavaScript Bundles for Jupyter
```

To test `go.FigureWidget` locally, you'll need to generate the JavaScript bundle as follows:

```
cd js
npm install && npm run build

> ```

Reviewer: delete

Author: Not sure what I should be deleting here - can you please re-check after I push an update and let me know?

Reviewer: Ah sorry that was ambiguous. I'm suggesting to delete lines 179-184 on your branch in CONTRIBUTING.md. The following lines convey the same information and are more clear, I think.
